readme.md, before:

# Jupyter notebooks to georeference a line shapefile

## Description
You can use this notebook to georeference a line shapefile using a set of control points. The shapefile is defined by the variable ``shpfile`` and the control point file by the variable ``control_pt_file`` that can be found in the parameters box in the notebook. The transformation can be performed using a first or second order polynomial. The resulting file is a 3D shapefile and is saved with the same filename as the input file, but with ``_georef.shp`` apppended to the filename. Note I am still working on finding a convenient output format for this, given that most GIS software only reads 2D shapefiles. The georeferenced control points and the georeferencing error is saved as a csv file named [georeferencing_results_control_pts.csv](georeferencing_results_control_pts.csv). In addition, the georeferenced control pts are saved as a 3D figure named [fig/transform_error.pdf](fig/transform_error.pdf)

In addition the resulting 3D line file can be converted back to a 2D file by projecting the lines onto a plane. The plane is defined by three points that are read from a shapefile that is defined by the variable ``plane_pt_file``. The resulting 2D shapefile is saved using the same name as the input file but with ``_projected_to_plane`` appended to the filename.


## Dependencies

The notebooks requires a number of python packages: numpy, matplotlib, pandas, geopandas, scipy, shapely, sympy
The easiest way to install these it to use Anaconda Python: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual



## Authors
* **Elco Luijendijk**, <elco.luijendijk-at-posteo.de>


## Reference


## License
This project is licensed under the GNU lesser general public license (LGPL v3). See the [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file for details.

Commit message:

added new example fracture dataset, updated readme

readme.md, after:

# Georef_fracture_traces: Jupyter notebooks to georeference fracture trace maps

## Description
Georef_fracture_traces is a Python notebook that was designed to create 3D georeferenced fracture networks from digitized fracture traces from outcrop photos. In addition the 3D fracture network can be projected onto a plane to generate a 2D georeferenced fracture network that can be used for fracture network analysis and further fluid flow or geomechanical modelling workflows. Georeferencing can be performed using a first or second order polynomial. 


## Dependencies

The notebook uses Python 3.x and a number of additional Python packages: numpy, matplotlib, pandas, geopandas, scipy, shapely, sympy.

The easiest way to install these it to use Anaconda Python: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual


## Workflow

1. Create a shapefile with the locations of fractures in an (unreferenced) outcrop photo
2. Create a 2nd shapefile with ground control points, i.e., points in the outcrop photo for which you know the coordinates. Add three columns to this shapefile named x, y and z and add the coordinates to these columns
3. Create a 3rd shapefile that contains three points that define a plane. The georeferenced fracture network will be projected to this plane and saved as a new 2D shapefile. This step is optional. In case of a perfectly horizontally or vertically oriented outcrop you can also let the notebook define a plane for you by setting the variable ``get_plane_pts_from_file = False``.
4. Start the jupyter notebook [georef_fracture_traces.ipynb](georef_fracture_traces.ipynb) and update the variables ``shpfile`` and ``control_pt_file`` with the names of your fracture network and control point shapefiles that you created in step 1 and 2
5. Update the variable ``plane_pt_file`` to point to the shapefile with the points that define the plane, i.e., the file that you created in step 3. Note that when you choose the option ``get_plane_pts_from_file = False`` then this step is not needed.
6. Run the notebook and inspect the text and images that were generated by the notebook and the output files to make sure everything went well.
7. If all went well there should now be two new shapefiles in the directory data. One shapefile with the georeferenced fracture traces (see the example shapefile [data/fractures_georef.shp](data/fractures_georef.shp)) and one shapefile with the georeferenced traces projected to a plane (see example shapefile [data/fractures_projected_to_plane.shp](data/fractures_projected_to_plane.shp)). The georeferenced fractures are also saved as a GeoJSON file ([data/fractures_georef.geojson](data/fractures_georef.geojson)).
8. The notebook should also have generated a number of figures of the model results. These include a figure with the georefencing results for the control points ([fig/transform_error.pdf](fig/transform_error.pdf)), a 3D figure of the georeferenced fracture traces ([fig/fractures_georef_3d_fig.pdf](fig/fractures_georef_3d_fig.pdf)) and a figure of the same georeferenced fracture traces viewed from three directions ([fig/fractures_georef_2d_fig.pdf](fig/fractures_georef_2d_fig.pdf)). THe georeferencing results for the control points are also saved as a csv file ([data/georeferencing_results_control_pts.csv](data/georeferencing_results_control_pts.csv)) that can be inspected using excel, openoffice or a texteditor.


![fig/input_shapefile.pdf](fig/input_shapefile.pdf)
*The digitized but still not georeferenced fracture network*

![fig/fractures_georef_3d_fig.pdf](fig/fractures_georef_3d_fig.pdf)
*3D figure of the georeferenced fracture network*

![fig/fractures_projected_to_plane.pdf](fig/fractures_projected_to_plane.pdf)
*The fracture network projected onto a plane*


## Authors
* **Elco Luijendijk**, <elco.luijendijk-at-posteo.de>


## Reference


## License
This project is licensed under the GNU lesser general public license (LGPL v3). See the [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) file for details.
